add filtering (#1148)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/treedatagrid/filtering/filtering-ui.md

---
title: Filtering UI
page_title: .NET MAUI TreeDataGrid Documentation - Filtering UI
description: Review the Telerik .NET MAUI TreeDataGrid Filtering UI documentation article to learn more about the built in Filtering UI functions you can use.
position: 1
slug: treedatagrid-filtering-ui
---

# Filtering UI

The [.NET MAUI TreeDataGrid]({%slug treedatagrid-overview%}) provides you with a built-in filtering functionality, which allows the user to filter the data by one or more columns by clicking on the filtering icon next to the header text.

> > The Filtering UI appears when clicking the filtering icon in each column's header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The Filtering UI appears when the user clicks the filtering icon in a column's header.
```

You can control whether the Filtering UI is available to the end users for the whole DataGrid with the `UserFilterMode` property:

* `UserFilterMode`(`DataGridUserFilterMode`)&mdash;Defines whether the filtering icon is present in the header of the currently available filterable columns. The available options are `Auto`, `Enabled`, and `Disabled`. The default value of the `UserFilterMode` is `Auto`.

The DataGrid columns expose the following properties related to the Filtering UI: 

* `CanUserFilter`(`bool`)&mdash;Indicates whether the user can filter this column by using the built-in Filtering UI. By default, the value is `True`.

* `ShowDistinctValuesFilter`(`bool`)&mdash;Defines whether the distinct values are included in the Filtering UI. By default, the value is `True`.

* `FilterContentTemplate`(`DataTemplate`)&mdash;Defines the content template of the DataGrid Columns Filter and overriding the default template.

> Events related to `DistinctValuesFilter`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following events are related to `DistinctValuesFilter`:
```
